Introduction
------------

A hynsphax deployment can consist of multiple HylaFAX servers and multiple
netsapiens and/or faxback ata connector servers. There are no components of
hynsphax to be installed on the windows based ata connector software. The
following installation steps must be performed for each HylaFAX and netsapiens
server deployed. The installation process was tested with the HylaFAX
Enterprise appliance ISO version 6.2.14 and netsapiens version 1:40.1; there
may be variances with different versions of either software package or the
open-source release of HylaFAX.

If this is an upgrade rather than an initial install, you can follow the same
set of instructions other than where indicated below, with the caveat that if
you copy in the newer configuration files, you will need to restore any local
updates made to them. You should also review the CHANGES file to check for any
specific upgrade steps required for the version being installed.


HylaFAX servers
---------------

hynsphax requires the following packages to be installed for basic operation:

	perl-Unix-Syslog.x86_64
	perl-libwww-perl
	perl-CGI
	perl-Data-UUID.x86_64
	perl-DBD-SQLite
	perl-LWP-Protocol-https
	perl-File-LibMagic
	perl-XML-Simple

This prerequisite can be met by running:

	yum install perl-Unix-Syslog.x86_64 perl-libwww-perl perl-CGI \
	perl-Data-UUID.x86_64 perl-DBD-SQLite perl-LWP-Protocol-https \
	perl-File-LibMagic perl-XML-Simple


If support for faxing office documents is desired, these additional packages
are also required:

	libreoffice-calc
	libreoffice-impress
	libreoffice-writer

The package list can be added to the previous yum command, or executed
separately:

	yum install libreoffice-calc libreoffice-impress libreoffice-writer


In addition to installing the libreoffice packages, the following commands must
be run to provide the necessary environment for hynsphax to execute libreoffice
upon fax submission:

	mkdir -p /usr/share/httpd/.cache/dconf
	chgrp apache /usr/share/httpd/.cache
	chmod 750 /usr/share/httpd/.cache
	chown apache:apache /usr/share/httpd/.cache/dconf
	chmod 770 /usr/share/httpd/.cache/dconf
	mkdir -p /usr/share/httpd/.config
	chown apache:apache /usr/share/httpd/.config
	chmod 770 /usr/share/httpd/.config


To allow hynsphax access to files outside of the default web server hierarchy
and to connect to the HylaFAX services, SELinux must either be disabled or
appropriate configuration changes made. SELinux is a PITA, to disable it edit
the file /etc/selinux/config and update the parameter “SELINUX” to “disabled”,
then reboot. Updating the configuration to allow specific exceptions for
hynsphax rather than completely disabling SELinux is outside the scope of this
document (and the patience of the author).


With your current working directory as the root of the hynsphax distribution,
run the following commands to install the necessary general software
components:

	mkdir -p /var/spool/hylafax/recvq-pdf
	chown hylafax:apache /var/spool/hylafax/recvq-pdf
	chmod 750 /var/spool/hylafax/recvq-pdf
	chmod g+s /var/spool/hylafax/recvq-pdf

	mkdir -p /var/spool/hylafax/doneq-pdf
	chown hylafax:apache /var/spool/hylafax/doneq-pdf
	chmod 750 /var/spool/hylafax/doneq-pdf
	chmod g+s /var/spool/hylafax/doneq-pdf

	\cp hylafax/hynsphax-cron /etc/cron.d/hynsphax
	chown root:root /etc/cron.d/hynsphax
	chmod 644 /etc/cron.d/hynsphax

	\cp hylafax/bin/hynsphax-outbound-queue \
			/var/spool/hylafax/bin/hynsphax-outbound-queue
	chown root:hylafax /var/spool/hylafax/bin/hynsphax-outbound-queue
	chmod 550 /var/spool/hylafax/bin/hynsphax-outbound-queue

	if [ ! -f /var/spool/hylafax/bin/faxrcvd.orig ] ; then
		mv /var/spool/hylafax/bin/faxrcvd /var/spool/hylafax/bin/faxrcvd.orig
	fi
	\cp hylafax/bin/faxrcvd /var/spool/hylafax/bin/faxrcvd
	chown root:hylafax /var/spool/hylafax/bin/faxrcvd
	chmod 550 /var/spool/hylafax/bin/faxrcvd

	\cp hylafax/bin/hynsphax-jobcontrol \
			/var/spool/hylafax/bin/hynsphax-jobcontrol
	chown root:hylafax /var/spool/hylafax/bin/hynsphax-jobcontrol
	chmod 550 /var/spool/hylafax/bin/hynsphax-jobcontrol
	rm -f /var/spool/hylafax/bin/hynsphax-dynamicconfig
	ln -s hynsphax-jobcontrol /var/spool/hylafax/bin/hynsphax-dynamicconfig

	\cp common/hynsphax-common.pl /etc/hylafax/hynsphax-common.pl
	chmod 444 /etc/hylafax/hynsphax-common.pl

        \cp hylafax/hynsphax-common-fb.pl /etc/hylafax/hynsphax-common-fb.pl
	chown root:root /etc/hylafax/hynsphax-common-fb.pl
	chmod 444 /etc/hylafax//hynsphax-common-fb.pl

	# Note - for upgrade, either copy in new config file and restore local
	#        changes, or apply new configuration options to existing file
	\cp hylafax/hynsphax.conf /etc/hylafax/hynsphax.conf
	chown hylafax:apache /etc/hylafax/hynsphax.conf
	chmod 640 /etc/hylafax/hynsphax.conf

	# New file for upgrades as of version x.x
	\cp hylafax/cgi/hynsphax-proxy /var/www/cgi-bin/hynsphax-proxy
	chown root:apache /var/www/cgi-bin/hynsphax-proxy
	chmod 550 /var/www/cgi-bin/hynsphax-proxy

The following commands install the phaxio API compatibility components:

	\cp hylafax/cgi/hynsphax-send /var/www/cgi-bin/hynsphax-send
	chown root:apache /var/www/cgi-bin/hynsphax-send
	chmod 550 /var/www/cgi-bin/hynsphax-send

	\cp hylafax/cgi/hynsphax-faxFile /var/www/cgi-bin/hynsphax-faxFile
	chown root:apache /var/www/cgi-bin/hynsphax-faxFile
	chmod 550 /var/www/cgi-bin/hynsphax-faxFile

	\cp common/hynsphax-common-px.pl /etc/hylafax/hynsphax-common-px.pl
	chown root:root /etc/hylafax/hynsphax-common-px.pl
	chmod 444 /etc/hylafax/hynsphax-common-px.pl


The following commands install the faxback ata connector compatibility
components:

	mkdir -p /var/www/cgi-bin/fb
	chown root:root /var/www/cgi-bin/fb
	chmod 755 /var/www/cgi-bin/fb

	for f in hylafax/cgi/fb/AccountLoginDetail \
			hylafax/cgi/fb/AccountProvisioningDetail \
			hylafax/cgi/fb/AuthorizeSendFax \
			hylafax/cgi/fb/DeliverImageStatus \
			hylafax/cgi/fb/SendFax \
			hylafax/cgi/fb/SentFaxStatus ; do
		\cp $f /var/www/cgi-bin/fb/$(basename $f)
		chown root:apache /var/www/cgi-bin/fb/$(basename $f)
		chmod 555 /var/www/cgi-bin/fb/$(basename $f)
	done

	# Note - this file enables passing through the client Authorization
	#        header for the faxback cgis. Depending on your environment,
	#        you might need other apache specific configuration to enable
	#        ssl or virtualhosts
        \cp hylafax/apache2-hynsphax.conf /etc/httpd/conf.d/hynsphax.conf
	chown root:root /etc/httpd/conf.d/hynsphax.conf
	chmod 444 /etc/httpd/conf.d/hynsphax.conf


netsapiens
----------

hynsphax requires the following packages to be installed for basic operation:

	libunix-syslog-perl
	libclass-dbi-perl

This prerequisite can be met by running:

	apt-get install libunix-syslog-perl libclass-dbi-perl


In addition, the necessary Perl DBD package for your chosen database (for
example, libdbd-mysql-perl) must also be installed.


With your current working directory as the root of the hynsphax distribution,
run the following commands to install the necessary software components:

	mkdir -p /var/www/hynsphax
	chown root:www-data /var/www/hynsphax
	chmod 750 /var/www/hynsphax

	mkdir -p /var/www/hynsphax/cgi-bin
	chown root:www-data /var/www/hynsphax/cgi-bin
	chmod 750 /var/www/hynsphax/cgi-bin

	if [ ! -h /etc/apache2/mods-enabled/cgi.load ] ; then
		ln -s ../mods-available/cgi.load /etc/apache2/mods-enabled
	fi

	\cp netsapiens/apache2-hynsphax.conf \
			/etc/apache2/sites-enabled/hynsphax.conf
	chown root:root /etc/apache2/sites-enabled/hynsphax.conf
	chmod 444 /etc/apache2/sites-enabled/hynsphax.conf

	\cp netsapiens/cgi/numberList /var/www/hynsphax/cgi-bin/numberList
	chown root:www-data /var/www/hynsphax/cgi-bin/numberList
	chmod 550 /var/www/hynsphax/cgi-bin/numberList

	\cp netsapiens/cgi/send /var/www/hynsphax/cgi-bin/send
	chown root:www-data /var/www/hynsphax/cgi-bin/send
	chmod 550 /var/www/hynsphax/cgi-bin/send

	\cp netsapiens/cgi/faxFile /var/www/hynsphax/cgi-bin/faxFile
	chown root:www-data /var/www/hynsphax/cgi-bin/faxFile
	chmod 550 /var/www/hynsphax/cgi-bin/faxFile

	mkdir -p /var/www/hynsphax/lib
	chown root:www-data /var/www/hynsphax/lib
	chmod 750 /var/www/hynsphax/lib

	\cp common/hynsphax-common.pl /var/www/hynsphax/lib/hynsphax-common.pl
	chown root:root /var/www/hynsphax/lib/hynsphax-common.pl
	chmod 444 /var/www/hynsphax/lib/hynsphax-common.pl

	\cp common/hynsphax-common-px.pl /var/www/hynsphax/lib/hynsphax-common-px.pl
	chown root:root /var/www/hynsphax/lib/hynsphax-common-px.pl
	chmod 444 /var/www/hynsphax/lib/hynsphax-common-px.pl

	# Note - for upgrade, either copy in new config file and restore local
	#        changes, or apply new configuration options to existing file
	\cp netsapiens/hynsphax.conf /etc/netsapiens/hynsphax.conf
	chgrp www-data /etc/netsapiens/hynsphax.conf
	chmod 640 /etc/netsapiens/hynsphax.conf
