hynsphax requires two or three different databases for operation.

The first one is the central configuration database, which must be available to
all HylaFAX and netsapiens servers. Testing was performed using mariadb; a
sample schema is available in the sql subdirectory in the file
config-mariadb.sql which will create the necessary tables. Any perl DBI
compatible database can be used for this purpose as long as you create
compatible tables using whatever syntax is required. A username/password
providing full access to these tables will be necessary and utilized during the
configuration process. Depending on your database selection, you might also
need to configure necessary access for the various IP addresses of the servers
that are in the deployment.

The second is the local queuing database, which exists separately on each
HylaFAX server. It is recommended to use sqlite for these instances, and a
sample schema named hy-queue-sqlite.sql is available in the sql subdirectory.
The following commands can be used to initialize the queue database on each
HylaFAX server:

	mkdir /var/spool/hylafax/config/hynsphax
	chown hylafax:apache /var/spool/hylafax/config/hynsphax
	chmod 770 /var/spool/hylafax/config/hynsphax
	sqlite3 /var/spool/hylafax/config/hynsphax/queue.db < sql/hy-queue-sqlite.sql
	chown hylafax:apache /var/spool/hylafax/config/hynsphax/queue.db
	chmod 660 /var/spool/hylafax/config/hynsphax/queue.db


Again, any DBI compatible database can be used for the local queuing database,
as long as the appropriate tables are created as necessary for your selection.

The third database is the central faxback queuing database, which shares
faxback queue state across all hynsphax servers to accomodate faxback HA. A
sample schema is available in the sql subdirectory in the file
fb-queue-mariadb.sql which will create the necessary tables. This database may
be combined with the central configuration database or as a separate database
depending on the deployment needs. By default the central config database will
be used. If you wish to use a separate database, update the hylafax
hynsphax.conf configuration to uncomment the db_fb_queue_list parameter and set
it to the appropriate database list.

Note that while the local hylafax queue entries generally maintained in sqlite
on each server are ephemeral and do not persist, the entries in the two
fastback queues stored in a central database are not automatically cleaned up.
You should use whatever mechanism is appropriate for database management in
your environment to purge old queue entries as necessary.
